Make the ValidityState»patternMismatch intro more clear (#12333)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/validitystate/patternmismatch/index.md

---
{{draft}}The read-only **`patternMismatch`** property of a **[`ValidityState`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/ValidityState)** object indicates if the value of an {{HTMLElement("input")}}, after having been edited by the user, does not conform to the constraints set by the element's [`pattern`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/pattern) attribute.

> If the following are all true:
> 
> - the field supports the [`pattern`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/pattern) attribute — which means the {{HTMLElement("input")}} is of `type` {{HTMLElement("input/text", "text")}}, {{HTMLElement("input/tel", "tel")}}, {{HTMLElement("input/email", "email")}}, {{HTMLElement("input/url", "url")}}, {{HTMLElement("input/password", "password")}}, or {{HTMLElement("input/search", "search")}}
> - the [`pattern`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/pattern) attribute contains a valid regular expression
> - the {{HTMLElement("input")}} value doesn't conform to the constraints set by the [`pattern`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/pattern) value
> 
> …then, the `patternMismatch` property will be true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `patternMismatch` property will be true if and only if the following conditions are all true:

- the field supports the [`pattern`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/pattern) attribute — which means the {{HTMLElement("input")}} is of `type` {{HTMLElement("input/text", "text")}}, {{HTMLElement("input/tel", "tel")}}, {{HTMLElement("input/email", "email")}}, {{HTMLElement("input/url", "url")}}, {{HTMLElement("input/password", "password")}}, or {{HTMLElement("input/search", "search")}}
- the [`pattern`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/pattern) attribute contains a valid regular expression
- the {{HTMLElement("input")}} value doesn't conform to the constraints set by the [`pattern`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/pattern) value.
```

(I think this is clearer because you don't have to keep the sentence "open" in your head while reading all the conditions.)

Author: > (I think this is clearer because you don't have to keep the sentence "open" in your head while reading all the conditions.)

100% agreed — thanks much
